---
layout: layout-post
title: giving dogs and blood
summary: the hero in the next cubicle
source: /app/posts/sage/maeve
preview-img: /app/posts/sage/maeve/preview.jpeg
preview-css : post-preview-std post__imgPreview--light
category : sage
tags : [admin assistant, plasma donor, service dogs]
published : true
portfolio : false
comments : false
featured : false
type : blog
---

While studying or hanging out around the chemical engineering building at UT Austin, I remember seeing one lady quite often. She was in her 50s or early 60s, wore a sombrero, and always had this young golden labrador walking calmly by her side. I remember seeing her frequently take the elevator down, chat with the department admins, and then leave the building with her dog. Both her and her dog seemed austere, distanced from the commotion of college life by a vial of calm. She didn't make a strong effort to meet the students that stared at her fuzzy friend. I can't even recall a time where a student pet the dog. I feel she had a distinct style, but I can't place my mind on what it specifically was. Maybe it was a hill country type style, though it didn't conform to the stereotypes of hill country. If I had not had the opportunity to work closely with her, she would have surely faded from my mind. 

In this category of posts, labelled 'sages', I'll take time to appreciate those whose actions embody values that I aspire to obtain. Hopefully these will spread a little bit of their charm and wisdom beyond those who directly encounter them. 

> If I had not had the opportunity to work closely with her, she would have surely faded from my mind. 

Back to the story. I got to know Maeve when I started working in the research lab that she managed. Her dog sat under her desk on a mat. It was much better behaved than any kid at 'take your kid to work day' would ever be. The dog was training to be a service dog; you know, the ones that help extend the abilities of people who struggle navigating our cities.

Whenever I had an opportunity to bother Maeve with a request, I tried to learn something more about how she raises these dogs. Every 18 months she gives up the dog and receives a new one. The dog then has to go through a rigorous test to ensure they are capable of serving a person. A fear of thunderstorms or vacuum cleaners would render a failure. To be able to raise these dogs to pass these tests, she must be hyper-conscious of the dog's development cycle to ensure it doesn't become afraid of anything encountered in a modern city. I wonder how many parents know as much about children's development as Maeve knows about raising dogs. 

> I wonder how many parents know as much about children's development as Maeve knows about raising dogs. 

I didn't take enough time to get to know her as I would have liked. She was quite reserved, and doesn't boast much about her activities. I did found out she left early every other Thursday to donate plasma. I was a little confused since I viewed plasma donation as much more time consuming than normal blood donation, and I thought people only did it if they needed money. When asked why she'd devote 2 nights a month to this, her response was essentially that it helps people more than donating whole blood. From her view, since she has the ability to give plasma, it would be silly not to do that.

In addition to years helping people with disabilities and those in need of blood, she has gone above her job requirements to help group members. She formatted one of my papers and submitted it to the journal. At the time, I thought this was a normal task, but after working in various labs since then, I came to view her work in the group more as full of generosity. 

> If I can and want to help people in that way, it is just natural for me to do so.

She seemed to asymptotically approach the Gandhi quote "be the change you wish to see in the world", which many of us think about for a minute before returning to our own world. I feel like she embodies the statement 'If I can and want to help people in that way, it is just natural for me to do so'.

She isn't all seriousness though. She has weekly gathering of friends, enjoys horse back riding, and radiates contentment in life. I am so happy to have been able to interact with her for two years in college. I should remind myself more often 'If I can help people through X, I can make it happen like Maeve did."

note: photo by Tanner Vines on [unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/E-1tnSNP0y4)

