---
layout: layout-post
title: technology enabling cooperatives
summary: a conference of interesting individuals
source: /app/posts/insight/cooperatives
preview-img: /app/posts/insight/cooperatives/preview.jpg
<!-- external: # -->
preview-css : post-preview-std post__imgPreview--dark
category : insight
tags : [cooperatives, technology, conference]
published : true
comments : false
portfolio : no
type : blog
---

Sometimes searching for random events nearby leads me to meet interesting people. Today I stumbled upon a conference called DiscoTech, which involved discussions around how technology enables cooperatives.  I see cooperatives as a way to empower people, similar to companies which give equity to employees, but to a larger degree. Since I currently live in a cooperative house, I viewed this as an opportunity to hear about other stuctures people have organized themselves around. Over the past weeks I have been wondering about the benefits and downsides of open source software. Though I have found open source software personally very useful and usable, I haven't seen how open source technology has positively impacted the people struggling most in society. Going to this conference did not answer this question, but it helped me reflect on my year in a cooperative house and the struggles facing coops currently. 

I arrived to hear Yochai Benkier, a person with deep personal experience of Israeli coops, explain the opportunities and challenges for coop enterprises. He claimed that opportunities for coops in this age come from gaps in markets, which seems identical to the entrepreneurial window mentioned in my Entrepreneurial Strategy course. Through experiencing some of the issues in Kibbutzim, agricultural cooperates in Israel, he was not the most enthusiastic person in the panel. Here's a list of what he believes are challenges for cooperatives today:

* create business models that can compete in a mainly for-profit market (e.g. open source commercialization)
* reconciling the 80-90's 'free everything' values with the necessity of feeding your family.
* scaling up an egalitarian structure (getting funding, channelling decisions, etc.)
* managing the tension of organizations which are competing in markets externally but egalitarian internally

After the talk, we broke off into groups, where I learned about [Ujima](http://oldoakdojo.com/event/boston-ujima-project-working-group-3/), an organization developing more egalitarian structures to serve poorly-developed communities. Earlier this year, I have read extensively about [socially responsible investing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socially_responsible_investing) (SRI) and started investing in some SRI funds, but I had less exposure to the [impact investing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impact_investing) which they discussed. Their starting project seems lofty: to create a community-driven investment pool providing sustainable funds for impact investing in companies and coops, using a one-person one-vote mentality to decision making. In addition, they'd like to create a certification, which seemed similar to SRI criteria, for local businesses to encourage customers in addition to providing services for employees that are difficult for small companies to manage, like health insurance. They diverge from the credit union model by providing funds for commercialization and with their voting structure. The goals of Ujima seem ambitious and I hope they can succeed in it. I'd enjoy to learn more and see if a positive impact can be made in under-served communities. 

After spending most of my time with the Ujima people, I went to talk to people about internet privacy and making podcasts about social issues. Numerous working coops were there, from a Drupal website design firm to house cleaners, that used a cooperative framework to improve their own quality of life.

Being exposed to these ideas made me think of my cooperative house. Here we have scale up issues. A few years ago, we paid off our mortgage, so it seems possible for housing revenue to be used for a down payment on another house, similar to [college houses](http://collegehouses.org/) in my undergrad. Private enterprise would encourage the continual investment, but the incentive structure for expanding doesn't seem apparent for my coop. It would require more work, increased rent and more risk, which would not benefit anyone currently in the house. To help me understand these issues better, I'd have to figure out what causes coops to scale, or not. I definitely need to read more to understand these issues deeper.

Note: [the preview image](https://unsplash.com/photos/pElSkGRA2NU) was taken in Marfa, Texas by Maher El Aridi and licensed with cc0.
